# Descriptive analysis of demographic data using the U.S. Census Bureau dataset
The International Data Base (IDB) offers demographic data for over 200 countries and regions from the worldwide, encompassing populations of 5,000 or more. The United States Census Bureau manage the demographic and health aspects, including total population size, population distribution by age and sex, fertility rate, mortality rate, and the migration patterns in the year 2023.

# Project Objective
The main goal is to evaluate the whole dataset using a variety of statistical and graphical tools. First, we use plotting histograms to look at how the frequencies of the variables are spread out. The second step is to utilize a boxplot with the mean, median, and interquartile range to calculate the variability of the sub-region that illustrates homogeneity and heterogeneity. Moreover, in this section also detailed comparisons between the regions of Europe and Africa are shown. Next, the heatmap is used to find the variables relationship with each other. Finally, changes that have occurred in the last 20 years, along with the median age and infant mortality rate for both sexes were examined.

# Dataset and Data Quality
The provided dataset represents a limited portion of the International Data Base (IDB) maintained by the United States Census Bureau. It includes the overall median age along with infant mortality rate for both sexes, male and female for 227 countries and countries are divided into five regions i.e. Asia, Africa, Europe, Oceania, and Americas, and 21 subregions between 2003 and 2023. The sample size of the dataset is 453 observations along with 11 variables. The variables of the datasets are ‘country name’, ‘region’, ‘subregion’, ‘year’, ‘median age for both sexes’, ‘median age for males’, ‘median age for females’, ‘total fertility rate’, ‘infant mortality rate for both sexes’, ‘infant mortality rate for males’, and ‘infant mortality rate for females’. From those variables, ‘median age for both sexes’, ‘median age for males’, ‘median age for females’, ‘total fertility rate’, ‘infant mortality rate for both sexes’, ‘infant mortality rate for males’, and ‘infant mortality rate for females’ are numerical (continuous) variables. Moreover, the variable of ‘country name’, ‘year’, ‘region’, and ‘subregion’ are categorical (nominal) variables.

From the year 2003 and 2023, countries are divided into the five regions and twenty-one subregions. While looking through the whole dataset, we find out that there are seven rows that have missing values. Six of them are from 2003, and the last one is from 2023. Missing values are positioned in rows number 118, 163, 190, 193, 197, 215, and 441. Only ‘country name’, ‘region’, ‘subregion’, and ‘year’ values exist in the first six rows, and the remaining variable values are missing. Furthermore, in row number 441, only ‘median age for both sexes’, ‘median age females’, and ‘median age males’ that three variables values are missing. Since there are only a few missing records in the whole dataset, they are not used for analysis.

# Statistical Methods
In this section, several statistical methods are represented. The information was analyzed with R, version 4.1.1, which was made by the R Development Core Team. In addition, R packages, including ggplot2, gridExtra, reshape2, and ggpubr are used for data analysis, calculations, and visualizations.

1. Mean, 2. Median, 3. Pearson Correlation Coefficient, 4. Variance and Standard Deviation, 5. Histogram, 6. Scatterplot, 7. Boxplot

